docs/remote-feature-flags.md, before:

# Remote Feature Flags

## Overview

This document outlines the process for adding and managing remote feature flags in MetaMask (Extension and Mobile). Remote feature flags allow us to control feature availability and behavior in production without requiring a new release. They are created on the Launch Darkly platform and distributed by our internal API [ClientConfigAPI](https://github.com/consensys-vertical-apps/mmwp-client-config-api). Please read the [Remote feature flags ADR](https://github.com/MetaMask/decisions/pull/43) for more details.

## Implementation Guide

### 1. Creating a New Feature Flag

1. Name your flag with team prefix (e.g., `confirmations-blockaid`, `ramps-card`)
2. Request LaunchDarkly access from TechOps. Here's a template email:

```
Subject: Requesting access to LaunchDarkly for [team]

Dear TechOps,
Can I please get access to LaunchDarkly with the "Metamask Extension and Mobile" role? (role key: `metamask-config`)

Thanks!
```

3. Select appropriate project in LaunchDarkly:
   - Extension: "MetaMask Client Config API - Extension"
   - Mobile: "MetaMask Client Config API - Mobile"
4. Create the flag following the [LaunchDarkly flag creation guide](https://docs.launchdarkly.com/home/flags/new)

### 2. Using Remote Feature Flags in MetaMask

#### Extension

To use a remote feature flag in the MetaMask extension, follow these steps:

1. Add selector from `import { getRemoteFeatureFlags } from 'path/to/selectors';` in your component file.
2. Use the selector to get the feature flag value.

```typescript
const { testFeatureFlag } = getRemoteFeatureFlags(state);
```

3. Use the feature flag value in your component.

```typescript
if (testFeatureFlag) {
  // Use the feature flag value
}
```

#### Mobile

##### Create a selector for your feature flag

- Location: `app/selectors/featureFlagsController`
- Create a new folder with your feature flag name
- Follow the structure from `app/selectors/featureFlagsController/minimumAppVersion`

Your selector must include:

- State selectors for each feature flag value
- Fallback values for invalid remote flag values
- TypeScript types
- Unit tests
- Any required business logic for value manipulation

> **Important**: Always use the specific feature flag selector when accessing values. Accessing feature flags directly from Redux state or the main selector bypasses fallback values and can cause crashes.

### 3. Remote Feature Flags with thresholds

#### Create a new feature flag with thresholds

You can create a new feature flag with thresholds by adding a new feature flag in LaunchDarkly with the following JSON:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "groupA",
    "scope": {
      "type": "threshold",
      "value": 0.3
    },
    "value": "valueA"
  },
  {
    "name": "groupB",
    "scope": {
      "type": "threshold",
      "value": 0.5
    },
    "value": "valueB"
  },
  {
    "name": "groupC",
    "scope": {
      "type": "threshold",
      "value": 1
    },
    "value": "valueC"
  }
]
```

#### Feature Flag Values with Scope Based on "metametricsId"

When initializing the `RemoteFeatureFlag` controller, user would have to pass in `metetricsId` to the constructor. Based on the `metetricsId`, controller generates a deterministic random number between 0 and 1, and then compares the random number with the threshold value of each group. The group whose threshold value is greater than or equal to the random number will be selected.

### 4. Testing Remote Feature Flags

#### Extension

##### Local Feature Flag Override

- Developers can override `remoteFeatureFlag` values by defining them in `.manifest-overrides.json` and enable `MANIFEST_OVERRIDES=.manifest-overrides.json` in the `.metamaskrc.dist` locally.
- These overrides take precedence over values received from the controller
- Accessible in all development environments:
  - Local builds
  - Webpack builds
  - E2E tests

##### Developer Validation

##### A. Local Build

1. Define overrides in `remoteFeatureFlags` in `manifest-overrides.json`:

```json
{
  "_flags": {
    "remoteFeatureFlags": {
      "testFlagForThreshold": {
        "name": "test-flag",
        "value": "121212"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

2. Verify in Developer Options:
   - Open extension
   - Click on the account menu (top-right corner)
   - Select "Settings" > "Developer Options"
   - Look for "Remote Feature Flags" section to verify your overrides

##### B. E2E Test

Add the customized value in your test configuration:

```typescript
fixtures: new FixtureBuilder()
  .withMetaMetricsController({
    metaMetricsId: MOCK_META_METRICS_ID,
    participateInMetaMetrics: true,
  })
  .build(),
```

#### Mobile

##### Local Feature Flag Override

1. Set environment variable in `.js.env` and run the app. This forces the fallback values to override any remote values.

```
OVERRIDE_REMOTE_FEATURE_FLAGS=TRUE
```

2. Test different feature flag scenarios:
   - Modify the default values in your feature flag selector
   - Run the application to verify behavior with different values
   - Remember to test both override and non-override scenarios

Commit message:

add Choosing the Right Feature Flag Type section

docs/remote-feature-flags.md, after:

# Remote Feature Flags

## Overview

This document outlines the process for adding and managing remote feature flags in MetaMask (Extension and Mobile). Remote feature flags allow us to control feature availability and behavior in production without requiring a new release. They are created on the LaunchDarkly platform and distributed by our internal API [ClientConfigAPI](https://github.com/consensys-vertical-apps/mmwp-client-config-api). Please read the [Remote feature flags ADR](https://github.com/MetaMask/decisions/pull/43) for more details.

### Choosing the Right Feature Flag Type

Choose the appropriate feature flag type based on your needs:

- **Boolean flag**: Use when you need a simple ON/OFF toggle for a feature

- **Object flag with scope based on "threshold"**: Use for:
  - controlling % of users who see a feature
  - A/B testing different feature variants
  
## Implementation Guide

### 1. Creating a New Feature Flag

1. Name your flag with team prefix (e.g., `confirmations-blockaid`, `ramps-card`)
2. Request LaunchDarkly access from TechOps. Here's a template email:

```
Subject: Requesting access to LaunchDarkly for [team]

Dear TechOps,
Can I please get access to LaunchDarkly with the "Metamask Extension and Mobile" role? (role key: `metamask-config`)

Thanks!
```

3. Select appropriate project in LaunchDarkly:
   - Extension: "MetaMask Client Config API - Extension"
   - Mobile: "MetaMask Client Config API - Mobile"
4. Create the flag following the [LaunchDarkly flag creation guide](https://docs.launchdarkly.com/home/flags/new)

### 2. Using Remote Feature Flags in MetaMask

#### Extension

To use a remote feature flag in the MetaMask extension, follow these steps:

1. Add selector from `import { getRemoteFeatureFlags } from 'path/to/selectors';` in your component file.
2. Use the selector to get the feature flag value.

```typescript
const { testFeatureFlag } = getRemoteFeatureFlags(state);
```

3. Use the feature flag value in your component.

```typescript
if (testFeatureFlag) {
  // Use the feature flag value
}
```

#### Mobile

##### Create a selector for your feature flag

- Location: `app/selectors/featureFlagsController`
- Create a new folder with your feature flag name
- Follow the structure from `app/selectors/featureFlagsController/minimumAppVersion`

Your selector must include:

- State selectors for each feature flag value
- Fallback values for invalid remote flag values
- TypeScript types
- Unit tests
- Any required business logic for value manipulation

> **Important**: Always use the specific feature flag selector when accessing values. Accessing feature flags directly from Redux state or the main selector bypasses fallback values and can cause crashes.

### 3. Remote Feature Flags with thresholds

#### Create a new feature flag with thresholds

You can create a new feature flag with thresholds by adding a new feature flag in LaunchDarkly with the following JSON:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "groupA",
    "scope": {
      "type": "threshold",
      "value": 0.3
    },
    "value": "valueA"
  },
  {
    "name": "groupB",
    "scope": {
      "type": "threshold",
      "value": 0.5
    },
    "value": "valueB"
  },
  {
    "name": "groupC",
    "scope": {
      "type": "threshold",
      "value": 1
    },
    "value": "valueC"
  }
]
```

#### Feature Flag Values with Scope Based on "metametricsId"

When initializing the `RemoteFeatureFlag` controller, user would have to pass in `metetricsId` to the constructor. Based on the `metetricsId`, controller generates a deterministic random number between 0 and 1, and then compares the random number with the threshold value of each group. The group whose threshold value is greater than or equal to the random number will be selected.

### 4. Testing Remote Feature Flags

#### Extension

##### Local Feature Flag Override

- Developers can override `remoteFeatureFlag` values by defining them in `.manifest-overrides.json` and enable `MANIFEST_OVERRIDES=.manifest-overrides.json` in the `.metamaskrc.dist` locally.
- These overrides take precedence over values received from the controller
- Accessible in all development environments:
  - Local builds
  - Webpack builds
  - E2E tests

##### Developer Validation

##### A. Local Build

1. Define overrides in `remoteFeatureFlags` in `manifest-overrides.json`:

```json
{
  "_flags": {
    "remoteFeatureFlags": {
      "testFlagForThreshold": {
        "name": "test-flag",
        "value": "121212"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

2. Verify in Developer Options:
   - Open extension
   - Click on the account menu (top-right corner)
   - Select "Settings" > "Developer Options"
   - Look for "Remote Feature Flags" section to verify your overrides

##### B. E2E Test

Add the customized value in your test configuration:

```typescript
fixtures: new FixtureBuilder()
  .withMetaMetricsController({
    metaMetricsId: MOCK_META_METRICS_ID,
    participateInMetaMetrics: true,
  })
  .build(),
```

#### Mobile

##### Local Feature Flag Override

1. Set environment variable in `.js.env` and run the app. This forces the fallback values to override any remote values.

```
OVERRIDE_REMOTE_FEATURE_FLAGS=TRUE
```

2. Test different feature flag scenarios:
   - Modify the default values in your feature flag selector
   - Run the application to verify behavior with different values
   - Remember to test both override and non-override scenarios
